.\" $Id: xxdiff.man 2 2000-09-15 02:19:22Z blais $
.\" $Author: blais $
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2000  Martin Blais <blais@iro.umontreal.ca>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.na
.TH XXDIFF 1.6
.SH NAME
xxdiff \- a graphical file comparator and merge tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
xxdiff [OPTIONS] <path> <path> [<path>]
.SH OVERVIEW
.LP
.I xxdiff
is a graphical browser for viewing the differences between two files and can be
used to produce a merged version.  The text of the two or three files are
presented side by side with their differences highlighted for easy
identification.
.LP 
The paths supplied on the command line identify the files to be compared.  The
paths may be one of three things:  a regular file, a directory or a '-', in
which case the input for that path will be read from standard input.  If the
paths are all directories, a directory diff will be done (unsupported at this
moment).  If at least one path is a file or a '-', a file diff will be
performed.  If there are directory names along with file names, the basename of
the file name will be appended to the directory names to find the other files to
compare with.  If there are multiple file names specified and some directories
names as well, xxdiff bails out, since it doesn't know which basename to use for
the missing one.
.SH OPTIONS FOR XXDIFF
.LP
.TP 8
.B \-\-help         
Show this help message.
.TP 8
.B \-\-version, \-v  
Show the program version and compilation options it was built with.
.TP 8
.B \-\-no\-xrm
Don't query X resources.
.TP 8
.B \-\-list\-resources
Output a list of resources with documentation and default values.
.TP 8
.B \-N <string>
When input is read from stdin this option specifies
the string to use in place of it's name in the 
title bar.  If not specified the string ``<stdin>''
is used.
.TP 8
.B \-D
If there are no differences then exit quietly 
with exit code of 0.
.TP 8
.B \-w
Passed on to diff(1). Ignore whitespace when 
comparing the two files.
.TP 8
.B \-b
Passed on to diff(1). Ignore trailing blanks 
when comparing the two files.
.TP 8
.B \-i
Passed on to diff(1). Ignore case when comparing
the two files.
.TP 8
.B \-m
(3-way only)  Pre-select hunks similarly to the diff3 -m feature
(conflicts will be left unselected).  This feature assumes that the files
are given in the MINE OLDER YOURS order.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The xxdiff window is divided into 3 main areas. These are, the menu bar at the
top of the window, an overview area on the right side of the window and a text
area occupying the remainder. The text area is further divided into two text
windows, one for each file, a vertical slider between them and a horizontal
slider underneath them.
.LP
The text in each of the text panes is divided into blocks of lines which are
color\-coded with one of five different colors.  This indicates that the block
either differs between the two files, is identical between the two files, has
been inserted in one file or the other, is for display purposes (to match an
inserted block in the other file), or has been selected by the user (for writing
to a merged file).
.LP
These colors can be modified by the user via the resources.  A legend display of
the colors and their meanings is available from the Help menu.  Resources can be
specified thru pairs of values in the format: <resource name>: <value> in a
~/.xxdiffrc file (the environment variable XXDIFFRC can override this location).
.LP
On the right\-hand side of the display is an overview area; this shows the files
in their entirety.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns the exit status generated by the 
.I diff
command.  This is usually 0 for no differences, 1 for some differences
and 2 for errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR diff (1),
.BR X (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000  Martin Blais
.LP
See the GNU General Public License
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Blais <blais@iro.umontreal.ca>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
To Rudy Wortel <rudy@alias.com> for writing
.I xdiff,
.br
to Daniel Williams <dan@sass.com> for writing
.I mgdiff,
.br
to Andrew C. Myers for writing
.I gdiff.
